============================
2014-10-16: Planning Meeting
============================
.. contents:: :depth: 2

Present: Jan Ivar, Tor, Erlend, Hege, Hans-Henry, Mikael

1. Defining a MVP
=================

.. image:: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/ByuBHIsIMAAfnVZ.png:small

Jan Ivar brought up some ideas around MVP as a concept. Discussed defining a
MVP and what it means. We got so far as to define a few general limitations and
some actions around networking.

Outcome
-------

The current list of characteristics defining our MVP

- Networking

  - 2x 10GB fiber (SR) to the core network at each location

  - A single /24 public IPv4 subnet per site will be allocated for the infrastructure

- Feature limitations

  - No redundancy for the Openstack services

  - No central authN/Z

  - No persistence (no booting from Cinder) for instances, we'll use local disk
    on the compute nodes


Actions
-------

- Write a short introduction about the plans for connectivity to the core
  network at each site. We will share this with the local organizations so
  that they are aware of the plans. (Jan Ivar, Hege)

2. Ceph training
================

There's a need for basic Ceph training as part of the project. At least one
person from each org.

Outcome
-------

Using the online course is fine, it has a curriculum and dates posted at
http://www.inktank.com/university/ceph130/. Pricing is not too bad, about $1000
for two days.

Jan Ivar suggests that Tor, Marte, Erlend and Mikael does the training, they'll
need to check if they are allowed and report back. Tor is ready and might even
do it already next week. For the rest of the group we are looking at November
19-20.

3. Openstack Summit
===================

We discussed a little around what sessions we want to be focusing on. It might
make sense to not have everybody go to the same sessions :-) Jan Ivar reported
he will focus on networking (IPv6!) and openstack maintenance and release
engineering (packaging).

There's an Openstack Summit app for Android on Google Play.

4. Meetings with potential partners
===================================

The project is in a process where we are meeting with potential partners.  Jan
Ivar reported about the current status of that and it looks like we're headed
in a good direction. Interest among vendors and external parties towards our
project is great.

Jan Ivar `shared a presentation`_ (mostly in Norwegian) he gave at one of the
meetings.

.. _shared a presentation: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1tg2_SbNBARZhuypOfoN28B-XzyXYhyjgcfH9wV0_hBw/edit#slide=id.g4d9e0a49c_00

