============================
2014-11-20: Planning meeting
============================
.. contents:: :depth: 2

Present: Hege, Trond, Mikael, Erlend, Jan Ivar


1. Networks and IPs
===================

The discussions around this (and the different policies) are not providing any
value to us. A compromise seems to be the best idea:

- The planned jumphost can be virtual or physical (in-rack) if that is
  preferred

- In-band management network
  - IP adressing can be public or private

  - Public gateway can be through core network or NATed via jump-host

  - DHCP helper address activation must be controllable by the project (off/on)

- Out-of-band management network

  - Same basic requirements as in-band

- Access control for managment networks

  - Access to both networks are *only allowed* using ssh via the jumphost

Cabling guide documentation is not ready yet but will be real soon now.

Outcome
-------

No changes, we agree as described.

Actions
-------

- Each location reports VLAN ids for mgmt networks so we can auto-configure the
  management switch

- Jan Ivar prioritizes getting cabling documentation done


2. How do we want to manage DNS for the MVP install?
====================================================

We must choose one of

- Internal DNS controlled by Foreman/controller box

- External DNS subdomain with updates done with Foreman (e.g .uh-iaas.uib.no)
  through nsupdate + secure key

Outcome
-------

This question was clearer than last week and we disussed pros and cons of both
alternatives. We plan on reaching consensus at the meeting next week.

Actions
-------

- External updating is OK at UIB. NTNU and USIT will check with local resources
  which approach they prefer.

- A first decision on this for the MVP will be made at the next meeting


3. New codebase 'himlar' started
================================

We've chosen to use r10k https://github.com/adrienthebo/r10k and git references
instead of git submodules for the first phase. We might revisit this decision
at a later stage if/when people think submodules is a better way.

https://etherpad.openstack.org/p/norcams-workshop

We're practicing doing a Github Pull Request workflow to learn.

Actions
-------

- When the codebase has accounts, sudo, ssh, ntp do a wider presentation of it
  for the full project group

- Ask project members to add their own ssh public keys as a PR to himlar


4. Misc
=======

- Discussed pointing to http://iaas.readthedocs.org from other locations to
  increase visibility. CNAME pointers like iaas.uio.no might be worth it?


